#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.12
# by the following command:
#
#    make upgrade
#
algoliasearch==1.20.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
amqp==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   kombu
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pydantic
anyio==4.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   httpx
    #   openai
asgiref==3.8.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django
astroid==3.2.4
    # via
    #   pylint
    #   pylint-celery
attrs==24.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openedx-events
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
billiard==4.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
boto3==1.35.16
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-ses
botocore==1.35.16
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
    #   s3transfer
build==1.2.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
    #   pip-tools
cachetools==5.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   tox
celery==5.4.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
certifi==2024.8.30
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   requests
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pynacl
chardet==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   diff-cover
    #   tox
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
    #   click-didyoumean
    #   click-log
    #   click-plugins
    #   click-repl
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-lint
    #   pip-tools
click-didyoumean==0.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
click-log==0.4.0
    # via edx-lint
click-plugins==1.1.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
click-repl==0.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
code-annotations==1.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   tox
coverage[toml]==7.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pytest-cov
ddt==1.7.2
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
diff-cover==9.2.0
    # via -r requirements/dev.in
dill==0.3.8
    # via pylint
distlib==0.3.8
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   virtualenv
distro==1.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openai
django==4.2.16
    # via
    #   -c requirements/constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-choices
    #   django-crum
    #   django-filter
    #   django-model-utils
    #   django-ses
    #   django-solo
    #   django-waffle
    #   djangorestframework
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-i18n-tools
    #   openedx-events
django-choices==2.0.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-crum==0.7.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
django-filter==24.3
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-model-utils==5.0.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-object-actions==4.3.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-ses==4.1.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-solo==2.3.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-waffle==4.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
djangorestframework==3.15.2
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
dnspython==2.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pymongo
edx-ccx-keys==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openedx-events
edx-django-utils==5.15.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-rest-api-client
    #   openedx-events
edx-i18n-tools==1.6.3
    # via -r requirements/dev.in
edx-lint==5.4.0
    # via -r requirements/dev.in
edx-opaque-keys[django]==2.11.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-ccx-keys
    #   openedx-events
edx-rest-api-client==6.0.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
factory-boy==3.3.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
faker==28.4.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   factory-boy
fastavro==1.9.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openedx-events
filelock==3.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
h11==0.14.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   httpcore
httpcore==1.0.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   httpx
httpx==0.27.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openai
idna==3.8
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   requests
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pytest
isort==5.13.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/dev.in
    #   pylint
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   diff-cover
jiter==0.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openai
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
kombu==5.4.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
lxml[html-clean,html_clean]==5.3.0
    # via
    #   edx-i18n-tools
    #   lxml-html-clean
lxml-html-clean==0.2.2
    # via lxml
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   jinja2
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via pylint
mock==5.1.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
newrelic==9.13.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
openai==1.44.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
openedx-events==9.14.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
packaging==24.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   build
    #   pyproject-api
    #   pytest
    #   tox
path==13.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/constraints.txt
    #   edx-i18n-tools
pbr==6.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   stevedore
pip-tools==7.4.1
    # via -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
platformdirs==4.3.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   pylint
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   diff-cover
    #   pytest
    #   tox
polib==1.2.0
    # via edx-i18n-tools
prompt-toolkit==3.0.47
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   click-repl
psutil==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pycodestyle==2.12.1
    # via -r requirements/dev.in
pycparser==2.22
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cffi
pydantic==2.9.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openai
pydantic-core==2.23.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pydantic
pydocstyle==6.3.0
    # via -r requirements/dev.in
pygments==2.18.0
    # via diff-cover
pyjwt==2.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-rest-api-client
pylint==3.2.7
    # via
    #   edx-lint
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
    #   pylint-plugin-utils
pylint-celery==0.3
    # via edx-lint
pylint-django==2.5.5
    # via edx-lint
pylint-plugin-utils==0.8.2
    # via
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
pymongo==4.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pyproject-api==1.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   tox
pyproject-hooks==1.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
    #   build
    #   pip-tools
pytest==8.3.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-django
pytest-cov==5.0.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
pytest-django==4.9.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   botocore
    #   celery
    #   faker
python-slugify==8.0.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
pytz==2024.2
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-i18n-tools
    #   responses
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   algoliasearch
    #   edx-rest-api-client
    #   responses
responses==0.25.3
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
s3transfer==0.10.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-ccx-keys
    #   edx-lint
    #   python-dateutil
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   openai
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via pydocstyle
soupsieve==2.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   beautifulsoup4
sqlparse==0.5.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django
stevedore==5.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-opaque-keys
testfixtures==8.3.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   python-slugify
tomlkit==0.13.2
    # via pylint
tox==4.18.1
    # via -r requirements/ci.txt
tqdm==4.66.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openai
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
    #   openai
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
tzdata==2024.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   celery
urllib3==2.2.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   botocore
    #   requests
    #   responses
vine==5.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   amqp
    #   celery
    #   kombu
virtualenv==20.26.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/ci.txt
    #   tox
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   prompt-toolkit
wheel==0.44.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/pip-tools.txt
    #   pip-tools

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# pip
# setuptools
